You told me how to pronounce your name the last time.
It's Mukherjee, right?
Mukherjee.
Bharti Mukherjee.
Excellent.
That is with whom we are speaking.
I read one interview with you, not mine, but you actually have the title for this book, it seems to me, even while you were writing it.
Is that an interview you did?
and you were asking what you were working on, and you said, I'm working on a book that I'm calling Leave It to Me, and I don't want to say much about it, but it is interesting to me that you had the title so early in the process.
Yeah, and I have the title for my next novel, which I haven't started a word on, but I know I've done already a year's research on.
Yeah, the title came to me, and I realized what the voice...
of the, the character came to me first, and, yeah, uh, Davey, Debbie, and then, um, as she was working through her adventures, I had the title, and I knew then the, what the tone, and what the voice, this girl's voice, was, uh, uh, going to be about.
Someone who's, leave it to me, is not a jazzman.
You don't even care for jazz that much, your first time listening to it.
You said also that you really have to become these characters.
Is that particularly important?
Especially in this book.
You know, you're going to think I'm crazy if I say that
This is as much an autobiographical novel as... I never would have asked that question.
...as The Holder of the World or Jasmine were.
Because it's all like virtual experience.
You notice the look of incredulity.
It's not picking it up.
But I...
these are all alternate selves and that I become that character more and more draft by draft and the novel has changed draft by draft so dramatically as I have found out more and more about who she is and assumed her body I feel by
Seven, five, eight, five, nine.
Yes, and very different stride, very different voice.
And if you hear me read, it's really like I take on for the moment the voice of the character.
I can't help it.
It's not something that I work at.
And you actually feel when you're reading that you are this character.
Yes, otherwise I couldn't think like her.
or feel like her, and therefore do all the naughtiness cause the... Right.
Cause all the mayhem that she does as an avenging goddess.
And she is an avenging goddess.
Yeah.
And I've come to think now of my particular kind of fiction as really virtual truth or virtual...
experience if i'm not experiencing it i'm not sure that i can write it you're using the word virtual here now this is kind of a because of the virtual reality it's a confession too when we talked the last time we get off into a tangent about that because you're a star trek talking about the holodeck and things we might do but it was very interesting
But I find it interesting now that you're talking about a virtual... By virtual, I'm only because of the holder of the world and my obsession with such techy things.
I'm using virtual reality as virtual experience.
So where did this character come from then?
I mean, partly you said from yourself?
I think that Jasmine, Hannah,
Easton in the Holder of the World and Debbie Debbie here are three alternate versions of myself.
And that these are all first contact novels.
Jasmine comes to America for the first time and has to deal with it.
hannah came to india coromandel coast of india for the first time and had to deal with all that alien uh feelings as well as alien culture and climate and uh debbie i think of as the 90s christopher columbus yes described as the
She is the founding.
Quite literally, a founding, yes.
And Frankie wants to make a movie about the founding.
I like Frankie.
Oh, yes.
And the novel changed, you know, may have been totally different.
If the first draft, which I hadn't totally finished, it was three-quarters finished, on my laptop,
hadn't been stolen.
I had done, without making hard copy, foolish me, and gone from California to New York where we have our hovel on the Upper West Side.
for a vacation my youngest sister was visiting new york visiting the states after about 20 25 years we were so happy the cops said later that we were too conspicuously happy on the streets anyway so a chinese takeout delivery gang a chinese gang one of whom was working as a takeout delivery person came and
Just cleaned out my entire apartment, including the laptop.
And you had never done a hard copy?
No.
Bad.
But then I never look at my early drafts.
Thank God for this odd habit of mine that I think through every draft rather than rewrite.
And write them down.
I do the same thing.
Really, really?
Yeah, I don't have an outline.
My book was 638 pages.
papers together.
There's no papers.
There were no outlines.
There were no drafts.
And this book I'm looking at now, my wife is now accustomed to my saying, so what are you doing?
I said, I'm developing a narrative strategy.
That's really what you're doing, really, isn't it?
Now I make hard copies of every draft.
You have to make hard copies.
But I have learned the hard way.
My younger daughter erased
a chapter, an 18,000 word chapter in my book, and it was really, it was done, and it was wonderful.
This chapter, chapter, what is chapter four, and I totally had to rewrite it again.
It's better, but I lost six weeks, easily lost six weeks.
Yeah, but you feel that it's better in the same way.
I feel that, you know, it's all for the best.
And she says, you know, I mean, it's one of these hyperventilation things we do.
Yes, at the time.
Oh, God.
But I said, it's better.
Don't worry about it.
It's a much better check.
But anyway.
I think Frankie Fong came into the novel as a result.
Is that right?
Yes.
And I met all these people like when I immediately had to, they were apparently trying to also siphon my bank account in California.
And so I had to rush back and put in burglar alarm system in both New York and California.
And the guy who was putting in the burglar alarm system in California was a Vietnam vet, former Vietnam vet.
So again, a face here, an incident there, they all sort of worked.
When things are going well,
Everything feeds into the novel, and you feel so invincible.
Well, where you say now that these are three books that are all different parts, you do obviously then see this as a continuing body of work together.
Trilogy, yeah.
It is a trilogy.
I've not seen that.
Have you expressed that before, that this is a kind of trilogy?
Probably not.
But did you conceive of it as a trilogy?
No.
You think that's the way it's more or less played out?
Yeah, that it's just played out that way.
Do you think all of your work will be basically a... I did an interview with Nadine Gortimer, and she gave a very interesting observation.
She feels that her books, all of her books, are like walking.
She compared it to walking into a room and looking at the same statue from different...
No, I don't think so.
In this particular novel, I was very interested in what happens when you're multiracial as opposed to uniracial, uniethnic, I'm sorry, as I am.
And this is long before Tiger Woods.
I heard the news and I know nothing about golf, but so many of my students are part Korean, part African-American, let's say.
Or my own children, they have three mother tongues, English being predominant, but Bengali, French, and they are so many different ethnicities.
And the politics of identity
has become so ferociously and self-servingly about one group think, one group race.
But what happens to those who are many, many different kinds?
And I had already finished writing the novel, but just after I finished the final draft, I was at the
Democratic National Convention.
You went to the Democratic National Convention?
Well, I was invited by Bill Bradley to be on that panel on racial healing with Toni Morrison and Cornel West.
I thought you were just there to see it.
It was a circus.
It was a circus, yes.
And Cornel West was so that, you know, we... And then Richard Ford as our white guy.
Yes?
And who's a sweetheart.
And so one of the people in the audience, young people towards the end, and we're talking about 2,000 people in the field auditorium in Chicago.
We're saying, what happens to those of us who want to claim not one, but both?
This was a part African-American, part, I don't know, Latino or Asian.
young men, and then there's a whole contingent of them.
So I realized that I'm not off on a limb in some way, but that the future of America is going to be not about this kind of, and that there's in fact a danger to the politics of identity that derives its identity only from biology, ethnicity, and that we've got to think beyond race
beyond ethnicity.
Because I have a new population of readers, and I think the last time we spoke, my circulation was like a hundred thousand, and now it's several million.
It's wonderful.
It is, and I love it because I'm able to reintroduce to
And they know me.
I mean, my readers do get to know me after all.
So it's wonderful to me because I can almost revisit areas, if you don't mind, that we have in the past.
But you are, I think it's so important to emphasize your conviction that you are an American writer.
Yes, and that gets me into a lot of trouble.
Can you talk a little bit about that and how it even relates to this book and to the trilogy, for that matter?
Yeah, yeah.
And...
I'll begin by giving you an example of the current issue of The New Yorker, which is devoted to Indian writing because of the 50th anniversary.
Now, I have said that I'm an American writer of Indian origin, not because I'm ashamed
of my past, not because I'm betraying or discarding my past, but because my whole adult life has been lived here, and I write about the people who are immigrants going through the process of making a home here, rather than writing about India in the way that Rushdie did in Midnight's Children, or that, say, Rohintan Mistri does,
about Bombay.
I'm not revisiting Calcutta in all my nine books, but I'm writing about people who are in different ways making their lives here.
So I'm writing in the tradition of immigrant experience rather than nostalgia and expatriation.
Very important.
And I'm saying that for
The luxury of being a U.S.
citizen for me and the pleasure that I take in being American is that I can define myself not exclusively in terms of my ethnicity, but in terms of my politics, my sexual orientation maybe,
education, my background, so that I can have affiliations with you on the basis of the kinds of books we read, let's say, or the kinds of music that we may like.
And you're not my enemy simply because you're a white male.
Middle-aged, no.
Right, exactly.
I'm in trouble these days.
But the New Yorker, which doesn't include me in that issue,
Because I've said I'm an American writer, which is perfectly fair, and Nishti has a long article on Indian literature of the Indian diaspora.
And he says that I define myself as an American.
Perfect.
But then in the reviews, they include Leave it to Me, which is such an American book, even though it uses California, Florida Child, and
South Asia in the 70s as one of the Indian books so that it's like the last place.
The New Yorker doesn't feel like an American magazine or understanding of the American experience at all.
But the people that I'm writing about are in some ways
similar to, say, Italian-American, Irish-American, and so on.
With and without the hyphen.
Some of my characters want the hyphen.
Others, like me, don't because of minority discourse.
But it's also different because I am the color that I am.
And this is the 1990s, right?
And that America is not going to be as welcoming to immigrants, especially those who don't speak English or those who've snuck in and are assumed to be taking away, scapegoated as taking away jobs.
as they might have been when things were less crowded and there was a lot more money to be redistributed or to be distributed.
And as a result, the people that I'm writing of, there's no convention for them.
There are no rules.
I know if I'm writing, if I were an Italian-American or a Greek-American writer,
What my community has already, there's a history of immigration for that community and how to write about how other people have written about that community.
So that there's a social convention that my readers would recognize and then there's a literary convention that I would be working with or discarding.
But I'm writing about people who haven't been written of before and who are like those initial pioneers, 17th century.
They're larger than life.
They're greedier.
They're more heroic.
They're grander.
They're more grotesque.
And so that it's all, they're indenting life second by second.
And in order to understand them or have sympathy for them, you have to wear Mukherjee goggles because otherwise they don't fit.
To understand who they are and where they're coming from is much harder because there's simply no readers, publishers, reviewers have little experience.
Experiences in the right, precedence, models for them.
Very interesting.
And so in terms of also the trilogy, how this relates to the trilogy, this American-ness.
There are so many ways of working out that American-ness.
And to me, being American means that you are rejecting
your ethnicity and religion, race, as the only way of defining yourself and saying, I'm going to give you the categories by which I wish to be
Are you still identified and reduced as an Indian American?
Not always, but that's still the battle after all these years that I'm having to... As much as you've stated it, how much it disturbs you to be... Yes.
I think the New Yorker is probably one of the few now to insist that I'm...
sort of treat me as an Indian author who, however, doesn't want to be an Indian author.
But there are reviewers who don't understand the character, the immigrant experience of these non-white people in the 1990s, which is very, very different from the earlier decades.
When you read this novel, there's clearly a young woman
Yeah, and I'm saying I'm... From upstate New York, I mean... Exactly.
And you know what pisses me off, but... Is that would they... Well, I won't use it, but it upsets you.
Would they, yes, what upsets me, what disconserts me, is that would they for, oh, let's say, Opdyke, say that he is a British writer,
Simply because his, yes, or Bellow is my best example.
That Bellow was born outside this country.
He was born in Canada.
Would they call him not an American writer, but a Canadian writer, or worse, as they're doing with me, because his ancestors were Russian Jews, would they call him a Russian writer?
Why are they doing it?
to people of color like me.
So I'm trying to expand the center of American life and literature by saying we are all part of the mainstream.
There is no corruption.
How does this or does this have a place in this continuing debate on the canon?
the cultural wars that are going on, the debates over the various candidates.
I hope not, because I feel that now that the supremacy, the hegemony, has been broken, we've all had our consciousness raised that
You have to look at social and gender issues in how taste was formed.
But now that we've all had that done, I think the cannon wars have degenerated into turf wars.
ethnicity versus yours we've gone long beyond i want my gender versus my gender versus yes exactly and i think that we've gone long beyond uh bellow's unfortunate comment um outrageous and unfortunate comment that if there were any shakespeare's or proofs in papua new guinea we'd surely have heard
I think our job is to find and understand.
I'm paraphrasing it.
It was published, I think, again, on the New York Times.
No, I've forgotten where, but it's quite a famous quote.
But now I think that it's a good book.
What I do in my literature courses, Ted Burton, is...
using books in order to teach how to learn from literature, how to have a bigger soul, have larger heart through literature.
And if one year a Shakespeare play gets dropped, I don't do Shakespeare, but it doesn't matter if...
All genders and all ethnicities are not represented, as long as the books that I have chosen make the reader understand about her or his own world a little more.
So what is the course?
I teach whatever.
I do one fiction workshops.
So that's a writing class.
And then the literature course, I do one literature course every semester, is whatever topic obsesses me.
And if it is an undergraduate, large undergraduate course, I'll do, say, cultures in English, meaning Anglophone novel, or literatures of the world in translation, or the short story, so that
I don't feel I have to insist on statistical proportioning in the context of cannon-busting, but I am choosing what is good for the topic as long as the texts are wonderful.
And I'm teaching...
In the literature courses, I'm of course, because of who I am and where I come from, I'm always aware of the social, political, historical, racial context in which the characters live out their adventures.
a position within these... I mean, you certainly are, you can use the phrase cannon-buster, that's the first time I wrote it, so obviously you are alert to the debate.
Oh, yes, and I'm very... Yes, yes, yes.
But now I want, just as I want to go beyond multiculturalism, beyond ethnicity, I want to go beyond that kind of group bashing,
What are the criteria to choose a work of literature?
I mean, is it great literature or does it have to be relevant?
It seems to be this question of relevance.
Well, I can make any, like Ovid.
I love Ovid's Metamorphosis.
the genesis, I can make them very relevant to today's topic.
It's how you read the literature, who you are at any given time, bringing those intelligences and sensitivities to bear.
That's what great literature should be about.
Larger-than-life characters going through
incredibly perilous, soul-risking adventures.
I mean, you said before, you stated your belief that the novel certainly teaches an individual more about life and history than moral works and history.
Did you maintain that skill?
Yes, yes.
It touches people.
because it's no longer statistics but you're relating one-on-one to characters as though they are people that you know it's as though if you have a terrible disaster let's say
plane is bombed.
You read it in the paper or you see it in little film clips on TV, it is simply a horrible tragedy.
But if you get to know one of the victims or families, the bereaved family, then you relate to that tragedy in a wholly different way.
And so for me,
all these protagonists or even minor characters are a way of making the mainstream reader relate to the other American in ways that are not simply newspaper, like all those nasty
undocumented aliens who are taking away our jobs that we have through politicians or newspaper clips.
The Carnegie Corporation.
I went to see him down in town.
Big loss for Brown.
I don't know the new person.
I'm sure that's wonderful too.
He was here nine years.
I think they only expected to get five out of him.
So they're thrilled.
But he did some wonderful things.
I knew him from his, not knew him, knew him, but from the New York Public Library days.
And of course, this new book I'm doing is libraries, the past and the future, reading, this whole concept of book culture.
as we enter a new millennium.
I hate that.
I don't even want to get involved in the millennial stuff.
Right.
But it's really so appropriate right now because you have all these.
You have libraries getting rid of books, for instance.
Do you know that?
I mean, actually getting rid of... In San Francisco, there was all that big... I've been following up.
I was out there.
Ken Dolan.
Yeah, that's right.
He lost his job.
Yes.
Nicholson Baker and Ken D'Alnetto is a lovely good one.
I'm trying to get an interview with him.
I've been able to connect with him sometime.
He's out in Berkeley, I think, as a matter of fact.
Yes.
But Cornell, for instance, is where they now have 6.8 million books.
And they're actually going to reduce that to five million by the year 2000.
So, you know, these are very interesting.
That's scary.
It is scary.
And they say, well, there are books that people never use.
But does that mean that popularity is... Does it mean that just because, let us say, more...
Danielle Steele novels are checked out of libraries.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you can actually document pieces now.
I'm doing it.
As much as I enjoyed it, I really kind of missed the point.
I really just focused on things.
This is going on everywhere.
I mean, really, you have libraries that are getting rid of books that are 150 years old.
because nobody's asking for it.
But libraries all over the country are getting rid of the same books.
So I wouldn't even be a bit surprised if some of those books in San Francisco got rid of.
We're the last known copies in public collections.
We really are going to have cases where the last known copy is being disposed of.
No, no, no, no, but that's fascinating.
And at the same time, I understand about technology and that we have to find new ways
of storing and distributing.
They did the same thing in Bosnia.
It was a deliberate attempt.
I've already interviewed the library.
Oh, the national... 1.2 million books.
Right, because I was going to do, and Ken Dowlin was going to help provide the atrium of that wonderful atrium for a fundraiser in order to raise $4 million, we hoped, for rebuilding the Bosnian National Library building.
Right.
Well, there was a lot of learnings here last fall.
It was the effort to...
replicate as best they can.
The books digitally is right over at Harvard.
Uh-huh.
So I'm setting it up for six hours.
He literally just describes what it's like to catch a bold, a burning leaf with it in the script.
Oh, oh, oh.
And in your hands, the letters, you know, turn to certain threads.
You can actually feel the letters in your hand.
Right.
I mean, it really is a cultural side.
It is.
Like genocide, that you are aiming, you're targeting the extermination of the culture.
And if you intend to exterminate people, then you do have to exterminate the memory.
Yes.
It's essential.
But we saw in Hungary, with the reburial of the five martyrs in 1989, how in Budapest they
oral history, then there's a resurgence of oral history so that people will pass it on when you're not allowed to write it.
What did that have to do in Budapest?
I was there for a weekend
international conference where they brought writers from all over the world.
Just the week that the five martyrs were reburied and hooked, a lot of the Eastern European and especially the Hungarian writers were saying,
that we kept it alive through orality.
That's fantastic.
You were not allowed to talk about it.
Books were banned and so on.
I should be able to find some literature on this.
Maybe.
Because it is very interesting.
There was more Cambodian history.
in New York than there is in Cambodia, because they have these fantastic collections, which have been built up.
And so now what they've done with the new government is that they are giving them digital copies of their own history.
How interesting.
Fascinating.
And then they also sent teams over there.
to microfilm the palm leaf manuscripts and the palm leaf libraries.
My God!
I don't know how it's going to work into this.
I'm sorry to go off.
No, no, no.
This is totally mesmerizing.
Barton told me about it.
He said, you know, when there was an old poem in the early 1800s, the Polish National Library was in Paris.
And to this day, after I can go to Paris in a week and a half, the Bibliothèque Polonaise is still there, and that's the actual time we've worked in.
There was a greater library, and that was the repository of Polish culture.
It was in Paris when there was no Polish.
Well, libraries, you're all reading.
I mean, I've read that you read.
I research like crazy.
But as a child, you read through.
Yes.
Everything.
Are you a product of your reading and all?
Totally.
I'm a product of my reading, and I think that that's why...
I'm not bound by the political correctness restrictions that if you're a woman, you write only from a woman's point of view.
If you're a male, don't you dare write from a woman's point of view all about race.
Because I grew up reading
about societies, Dostoev's novels, Gorky's, because for some reason those Russian novels were very easily available in Bengali translation in the fifties.
I don't know how I put myself in that situation, and I was reading these novels
before I knew a word of English.
So that I had never been to Europe.
There was no question of my ever leaving Calcutta.
But I was able to absorb their lives, live through them.
These characters were very much alive in my head, and I must have Bengali-ized them.
And I read all the...
I would take a single author and read everything by her or him.
And so all of Goldsworthy, all of Bennett, all of Wells, and of course all of Jane Austen and the Brompton sisters.
And they were all available.
Yes.
And not only that, this is so bizarre, Oxford Lending Library.
You would have books everywhere in Calcutta in the 50s and 60s, so that whether they are on pavements just outside
a restaurant that you're going into or a drugstore that you're going into.
And then you had bookstores that lent books because they were so expensive to buy, they found that it was easier to let you rent books to read.
And then the Oxford Lending, a very old-fashioned and it's still going strong bookstore in Calcutta called the Oxford Lending Library.
And it was filled with
Victorian harrow literature.
All these women authors with missus in front of their names and they wrote melodramas, but we read them with equal pleasure and we were supposed to respect them equally.
There was no valuation, no discrimination between highbrow literature, middlebrow literature, and so on.
I really haven't questioned you anything about the book.
That's my job.
Yeah.
But did you, would you describe... It comes back to the ability to enter those very alien lives, alien cultures,
and absorb it, totally understand it, or creatively misunderstand it, I think is what has made me a writer, so that I can become an Italian-American adoptee into an Italian-American, because I know upstate New York very well.
You had to be disconnected here.
What in the world is she doing about this?
I know Saratoga Springs.
I used to own a home and I've taught it.
And you really have lived of that kind of pathetic life.
And by the way, is your husband still in Iowa?
Yes.
And so we're communicating.
It's a tractable situation, apparently, I guess it works.
And I'm going to teach, I taught at the Writers' Workshop last fall, and I'm going back again to teach in Iowa this fall, so that Iowa's, we're our central home.
I spent over two weeks in Iowa when I was writing my book.
Right, I remember your story about that.
That was my big chapter there.
Everybody wants to know about the books.
Yes, that was fascinating.
26,000 books worth 20 million dollars because he loved them.
He stole them, not from the fact that they were valuable.
He wanted to have one of them.
Right.
Let's see.
Let's see if that's about... Yeah, and...
The novel, the last version of this last draft of this novel came to me as soon as I understood I was doing the Mahabhavi story, the prologue that opens it about the goddess Devi.
because it's good fighting evil, good slaying evil, but there's such a twist to what it is to be why one is good and why one is bad, or is bad really simply force of nature, because when Mahadevi is told by the gods to arm herself and, you know, empower herself and slay the buffalo demon, the buffalo demon is doing his
buffalo demonish thing, demoniacal or whatever thing, because that's his heritage, right?
I mean, he can't help it.
And so Davey,
is the agent of the gods, if you like.
She is an avenging god, but she's also a force of nature.
And there comes a moment in the novel towards the end
when she slaves the buffalo demon, and I won't give away who that is for your readers, and that's redemptive.
I'm not interested in simply case history.
a pathological, psychopathic case of a serial killer.
I'm interested in mythologizing the killer.
Do you see it as a dark novel?
I think of it as both dark and very funny.
I think of myself as a weirdly comic writer, and I think that that's
what role is some people that I'm not doing the demure multiculti thing nor am I doing the sort of National Geographic kind of multiculti number but that I hope people have come to expect from the world that I present in fiction a great deal of
ambition, heroism, grotesquery, sex, and violence.
The character dictates the voice, and I know that I haven't gotten it to the right draft until the voice is right.
And do you think if you were to read from these three books and this film people's voice... Yes, and I can't help it.
And then you would absolutely assume that voice.
People have remarked on them about that.
I think that we've got, it's five o'clock, and I'm just going to take a quick look at lots of stuff here.
I think we talked about the American psyche and talked all about that.
And, of course, storytelling.
The story is the story of the thing.
And to me, big character and big story that...
What puts the soul in peril is important.
I'm less interested in sort of pretty writing.
I'm not at all interested in pretty writing, but in high-octane energy and big story.
Do you hear from readers that are in the vital signs of voices?
I get a lot of mail.
Do you have a sense of being readers?
An incredible cross-section, so that I'll have lawyers and doctors and orthopedic surgeons, for example, writing.
I'll have businessmen sending photographs, and then, since they're published in other languages, an awful lot to be brought to students.
I'd like you to have a reason to remind me of writing.
I'm really just, the character's telling me what it's going to do.
I'm in a trance.
Really?
Yeah.
When you're writing?
What else?
What else can I ask you that I do?
Is there anything that I do to you that I should know that you haven't covered before?
The rule to save and the strength to kill.
I like that line.
You have two people with him, and she's with Frank.
Vietnam.
Maybe the only thing that we haven't talked about is that the central experience of the central stimulus for these characters is the
Vietnamization of America and that they are all the characters are responding somehow to the Vietnam
catastrophe, and Loco Larry is named by it, the film producer, lover is... Right, and that whole seven... Yes, who now have become, like, trying to see from Davy's point of view how much of it was really an excuse for
excessive narcissism, self-indulgence, even though they did a lot of good through the peace movement.
And then Debbie herself is the child of the Vietnam protests and reactions, the garbage sack left on the
Hippie Trail.
And Romeo, Romeo Hawk, is part Vietnamese and part South Asian who is, again, refugee.
There were incidents like... But this is something that has been for us through generations?
That we're going to have to... We're no longer the America that I read about or saw in MGM musicals.
about America when I was in Calcutta, right?
And that this is the 90s, late 90s, or millennial America in which you have to decide what it means to be an American, not in terms.
of your European heritage, or your African-American, or any kind of ethnic heritage, but claiming the hate of all places as home.
You should say my 14-year-old, wonderful actress.
You should see her watching.
She loves to watch.
I love Lucy in three months.
Nostalgia.
Virtual nostalgia.
It's like watching Star Trek.
It's a totally alien world.
You know, Lucy and Desi in the 50s.
Oh, that's lovely.
It's a totally different America than it is.
Yeah.
And you say, Dad, did they really use that?
I mean, it's...
and that sense of humor.
Artifacts.
I'm sorry to ask you to do this with only one arm.
I have a pen if you need one or you have one.
This is a good model.
We fill an hour.
Do you see these whole, and you said that you don't outline and you don't draft, but do you see it all or is it a developing thing?
It develops.
I have the sense of character and a couple of scenes, but I have, and sometimes I think I know how it's going to end, but it never ends.
This is quite an ending.
It's quite an ending.
And you know, it is going to happen, and I won't tell you what year.
But I think I know where I'm going.
Come on.
Yes.
When I was in the Navy, it was funny.